I am delighted to address Jehovah's people and their friends worldwide today.
After sundown, some 20 million of us will have gathered in various congregations, groups,
and even as individuals to commemorate the death of Jesus.
Before we begin our discussion, we will have the text for today read by Brother Don Gordon,
a helper to the publishing committee.
Today is Tuesday, April 4th.
Keep doing this in remembrance of me.
Luke 22, verse 19.
Why would over 20 million people gather together this evening?
One reason is our scripture text for today, Luke 22, 19.
Jesus was in the process of inaugurating the memorial of his death.
He had just broken the unleavened bread and passed it to each one present.
The unleavened bread pictured Jesus' perfect, sinless body that he would surrender in death
for the everlasting benefit to all exercising faith in him.
It is at this point that Jesus said the words of Luke 22, 19.
Keep doing this in remembrance of me, meaning keep using the wine and bread as the way to
remember my death, and all that it will accomplish.
Why would he say that?
Keep doing this.
He meant exactly what he said.
Yes, keep doing it on and into the future.
How often did he intend that we keep doing it?
Some religions partake of the bread and wine weekly.
They call it communion.
Other religions let the individual congregations determine how often they would perform this activity.
Still others instruct that it should be done four times a year.
Why do Jehovah's Witnesses remember Jesus' death in this special way, just once each
year on the anniversary of Jesus' death?
Well there is some logic to celebrating an anniversary annually on the precise date
of the original event, much like a wedding anniversary.
Why would you celebrate a wedding anniversary on any other day of the year, or multiple
times a year?
Certainly you would not celebrate your wedding anniversary every week or every day.
Interestingly, the English word anniversary is defined as the annual recurrence of a date
marking an event or occurrence of notable importance.
Jesus' death is certainly of notable importance.
However, not only is it logical to do so once a year, there is a biblical indication that
this is what Jesus was requesting in effect saying, keep doing this once a year on the anniversary
of my death in remembrance of me.
What is the biblical indication that it should be memorialized just once a year?
Let's look at the context of our text for today.
In Luke chapter 22, please locate that text.
Our day's text is verse 19, but what was the initial purpose of Jesus and His apostles
gathering together for a meal on that date?
The date was nice and 14th, according to the Jewish or lunar calendar of that time.
Please look at Luke 22, 7 and 8.
It says, the day of the unleavened bread now arrived on which the Passover sacrifice
must be offered.
So Jesus sent Peter and John, saying, go and get the Passover ready for us to eat.
According to Jewish law at the time, Jesus had faithfully observed the Passover once
each year.
Now, read verses 14 through 17.
So when the hour came, he reclined at the table along with the apostles, and he said to
them, I have greatly desired to eat this Passover with you before I suffer.
For I tell you, I will not eat it again until it is fulfilled in the kingdom of God.
Excepting a cup, he gave thanks and said, take this and pass it from one to the other
among yourselves.
Just prior to instituting the memorial, Jesus celebrated the Jewish Passover as we just
read in verse 14 through 17.
By the time of the first century, it was the custom to pass four cups of wine to those
seated for the Passover meal.
The cup mentioned in verse 17 was likely the third cup of the Passover celebration.
Evidently, Jesus was saving the fourth cup for instituting the memorial of his dad.
So the question is, how often was the Passover to be celebrated?
In Exodus chapter 12, when Jehovah was preparing the Israelites to depart Egypt, he instituted
the Passover to remember this event of notable importance for the nation.
At Exodus chapter 12, verse 14, Jehovah instructed Moses, this day will serve as a memorial
for you, and you must celebrate it as a festival to Jehovah throughout your generations,
as a lasting statute you should celebrate it.
He repeated in verse 17, and you must keep this day throughout your generations as a lasting
statute.
So it is that Jews observed the Passover once a year as a memorial on the annual anniversary
of their Exodus from Egypt.
So after celebrating the last of valid Jewish Passover, when Jesus instituted the memorial
of his death, and he said, keep doing this, his apostles would have known the intent.
Instead of observing the Passover once a year on that date, they would now remember the
death of Jesus once a year on that same date.
That seems pretty logical, straightforward, and has a scriptural precedent.
But many phenomenal Christian religions seem to think memorializing the event more often
during the year must be even better.
One part, this is because of a misunderstanding of the intent of 1 Corinthians 11, 25.
In most English translations of the Bible, it has rendered something like this.
Keep doing this as often as you drink it in remembrance of me.
Some feel that the word often indicates that Christ's death should be commemorated frequently.
In the sense of as many times as possible, the New World translation also rendered the
verse similarly, prior to the Revivized Edition being released, the wording is an accurate
way of rendering the verse.
However, its intent is easily misinterpreted by many.
For example, just commemorating the Lord's evening meal once a year is often when you consider
that it is approaching 2,000 years since Jesus instituted it.
That in itself is often.
But more precisely, in the context of 1 Corinthians 11 verses 25 and 26, Paul was discussing
not how often, but how the memorial should be observed.
In the original language, she did not use the Greek word, which means often or frequently.
Rather, he used a different Greek word, which means as often as, or it could be expressed
whenever or every time that you do.
Paul was saying, every time that you do this, you keep proclaiming the death of the Lord.
To make that even clearer to the reader, the Revivized New World translation now renders
the text at 1 Corinthians 11 25 this way.
Keep doing this whenever you drank it in remembrance of me.
And as discussed already, Jesus intended that it be a once a year replacement for the
annual Passover observance on the anniversary of Jesus' death.
To be clear, following the process Jesus instituted with the bread and wine, just once
a year does not mean we only think about Jesus' death on one day of the year, no.
Those of you who are dedicated and baptized witnesses of Jehovah know that we think of
Jesus' sacrificial death every day of the year.
It is mentioned in our regular congregation meetings, in our family worship, and every
prayer, we say, acknowledges Jesus presenting the value of his sacrificial death in our
behalf.
At the end of every prayer, we acknowledge to God that we are praying in Jesus' name.
Amen.
Being imperfect, we do not have direct access to Jehovah.
Instead he readily accepts our prayer if we say it in the name of his son, Jesus Christ.
Most of you viewing this program are well aware of the fact that the memorial is primarily
for those chosen by God for heavenly life.
It signifies there being party to the New Covenant, to share in the kingdom with Christ.
However, all who gather together tonight will benefit greatly from being in attendance.
All of us are imperfect, and we benefit from Jesus' ransom sacrifice, which is the basis
for forgiveness of sins.
And all of us have the prospect of everlasting life in the future, whether that is in heaven
for the few anointed ones or in a paradise earth for the millions of others serving Jehovah.
So only the few anointed ones will actually partake of the bread and wine tonight.
Due to the high percentage of those in attendance with an earthly hope, very few by comparison
will partake of the emblems.
In most congregations, there will likely not be any partakers.
In others, maybe one or two.
If that is the case, why do we pass the emblems to each one in attendance?
Why not just invite any of the anointed to the stage to partake of the bread and wine?
It would save a lot of time instead of passing the emblems to all in the audience.
The foremost reason the emblems are passed before all is because that follows the pattern
set by Jesus.
However, if an anointed one makes clear his heavenly hope by partaking, what about those
of you who pass the emblems by without partaking?
You too are going on public notice that your hope is to live forever in a marvelous paradise
here on earth.
And think about it.
For humans, that is the best life ever.
It is what Jehovah originally intended for mankind when he created the first couple
in the Garden of Eden.
What could be better for a human than that?
All of us eagerly look forward to the time soon to come when the evil influence of Satan
is taken away from the earth.
He and all of his demon followers will be hurled into an abyss of inactivity for a thousand
years.
The resurrected anointed ones will share with Christ and bringing that about.
And those alive on earth, during the thousand year reign of Jesus, will share in bringing
the earth back to the condition Jehovah originally intended.
Extending our thoughts even further into the future, after the thousand year reign of
Christ, mankind will have reached perfection, similar to Adam and Eve after their creation,
and before their plunge into sin.
Each Corinthians 1524 says, next the end, when he hands over the kingdom to his God and
father.
By then the Messianic kingdom will have fulfilled its role to have an earth filled with perfect
people.
Then after a final test by Satan, any dissenters will be eliminated, and Satan and his demons
will be forever destroyed.
At that time Jehovah's original purpose for the earth will be fully realized.
The entire planet will be fully beautiful people.
All worshippers of the universal sovereign are precious father Jehovah God.
Brother Gordon, will you please read the watchtower comments for today's text?
Jesus spoke to his eleven faithful apostles about two covenants or agreements, the new covenant
and the kingdom covenant.
These covenants opened up the way for those apostles and a limited number of others to
become kings and priests in heaven.
Only the anointed remnant who are in these two covenants may partake of the bread and
the wine at the memorial.
Jehovah has given them a remarkable hope to enjoy immortal and incorruptible life in heaven
to serve alongside the glorified Jesus Christ and the rest of the 144,000 and above all
to be in the very presence of Jehovah God.
The anointed recognize that they must remain faithful until their death.
Thank you, Don.
For the past few days our Bible reading has covered the Bible accounts leading up to
Jesus' death.
We invite you to follow along with the reading for today.
The specific verses will appear on screen in your language, along with the reading
enjoy the new artwork that has been prepared this year.
On the first day of the unleavened bread, the disciples came to Jesus, saying,
Where do you want us to prepare for you to eat the Passover?
He said,
Go into the city to sow and sow and say to him,
The teacher says,
My appointed time is near.
I will celebrate the Passover with my disciples at your home.
So the disciples did as Jesus instructed them and prepared for the Passover.
The day of the unleavened bread now arrived, on which the Passover sacrifice must be offered.
So Jesus sent Peter and John, saying,
Go and get the Passover ready for us to eat.
They said to him,
Where do you want us to get it ready?
He said to them,
Look, when you enter into the city,
a man carrying an earthenware water jar will meet you.
Follow him into the house that he enters,
and say to the landlord of the house,
The teacher says to you,
Where is the guest room where I may eat the Passover with my disciples?
And that man will show you a large furnished upper room.
Get it ready there.
So they left and found it just as he had told them,
and they prepared for the Passover.
When evening came, he was reclining at the table with the twelve disciples.
While they were eating, he said,
Truly, I say to you,
One of you will betray me.
Being very much grieved at this,
Each and every one began to say to him,
Lord, it is not I, is it?
In reply, he said,
The one who dips his hand with me into the bowl is the one who will betray me.
True, the son of man is going away,
just as it is written about him.
But woe to that man through whom the son of man is betrayed.
It would have been better for that man if he had not been born.
Judas, who was about to betray him, replied,
It is not I, is it Rabbi?
Jesus said to him,
You yourself said it.
As they continued eating, Jesus took a loaf,
and after saying a blessing, he broke it,
and giving it to the disciples, he said,
Take, eat.
This means my body.
And taking a cup, he offered thanks,
and gave it to them, saying,
Drink out of it, all of you.
For this means my blood of the covenant,
which is to be poured out in behalf of many for forgiveness of sins.
But I say to you,
I will by no means drink again any of this product of the vine
until that day when I drink it new with you in the kingdom of my Father.
Finally, after singing praises,
they went out to the Mount of Olives.
Then Jesus said to them,
All of you will be stumbled in connection with me on this night.
For it is written,
I will strike the shepherd,
and the sheep of the flock will be scattered about.
But after I have been raised up,
I will go ahead of you into Galilee.
But Peter, in response, said to him,
Although all the others are stumbled in connection with you,
I will never be stumbled.
Jesus said to him,
Truly, I say to you,
On this night, before a rooster crows,
You will disown me three times.
Peter said to him,
Even if I should have to die with you,
I will by no means disown you.
All the other disciples also said the same thing.
Then Jesus came with them to the spot called Gethsemane.
And he said to the disciples,
Sit down here while I go over there and pray,
And taking along Peter and the two sons of Zebedee,
He began to feel grieved and to be greatly troubled.
Then He said to them,
I am deeply grieved,
Even to death,
Stay here and keep on the watch with me.
And going a little way forward,
He fell face down, praying.
My Father, if it is possible,
Let this cup pass away from me,
Yet not as I will,
But as you will.
He returned to the disciples and found them sleeping.
And He said to Peter,
Could you not so much as keep on the watch for one hour with me?
Keep on the watch and pray continually
So that you may not enter into temptation.
The Spirit, of course, is eager,
But the flesh is weak.
Again, a second time,
He went off and prayed,
My Father, if it is not possible for this to pass away,
Unless I drink it,
Let your will take place.
And He came again and found them sleeping
For their eyes were heavy.
So leaving them,
He again went off and prayed for a third time,
Saying once more the same thing.
Then He returned to the disciples and said to them,
At such a time as this,
You are sleeping and resting.
Look, the hour has drawn near
For the Son of Man to be betrayed
Into the hands of sinners.
Get up, let us go.
Look, my betrayer has drawn near.
While he was still speaking,
Look, Judas, one of the twelve came
And with him a large crowd with swords and clubs
Sent from the chief priests and the elders of the people.
Now his betrayer had given them a sign, saying,
Whoever it is I kiss, he is the one.
Take him into custody.
And going straight up to Jesus, he said,
Greetings, Rabbi, and gave him a tender kiss.
But Jesus said to him,
Fellow, for what purpose are you present?
Then they came forward and seized Jesus
And took him into custody.
But look, one of those with Jesus
Reached out his hand and drew his sword
And struck the slave of the high priest,
Taking off his ear, then Jesus said to him,
Return your sword to its place
For all those who take up the sword
Will perish by the sword.
Or do you think that I cannot appeal to my father
To supply me at this moment more than twelve legions of angels?
In that case, how would the scriptures be fulfilled
That say it must take place this way?
In that hour, Jesus said to the crowds,
Did you come out to arrest me with swords and clubs
As against a robber?
Day after day, I used to sit in the temple teaching
And yet you did not take me into custody.
But all of this has taken place
For the writings of the prophets to be fulfilled.
Then all the disciples abandoned him and fled.
Those were significant verses
Leading up to the two greatest acts of love of all time.
Jehovah and Jesus cooperated together to undo
The works of the devil that were initiated back in the garden of Eden
With Adam and Eve.
Whether ever you're anointed or the other sheep
We all have the marvelous hope of everlasting life
Based on the ransom sacrifice of the perfect man, Jesus.
We hope all of you enjoy your evening commemorating Jesus' death
In behalf of all of us.